chapters 31 to 33 of the book of Isaiah this is a LibriVox recording all LibriVox
recordings are in the public domain for more information or to volunteer please
visit LibriVox.org the book of Isaiah King James version chapter 31 woe to
them that go down to Egypt for help and stay on horses and trust in chariots
because they are many and in horsemen because they are very strong but they
look not unto the Holy One of Israel neither seek the Lord yet he also is wise
and will bring evil and will not call back his words but will arise against
the house of the evildoers and against the help of them that work in equity now
the Egyptians are men and not God and their horses flesh and not spirit when
the Lord shall stretch out his hand both he that helpeth shall fall and he that
down and they all shall fail together for thus have the Lord spoken unto me
like as the lion and the young lion roaring on his prey when a multitude of
shepherds is called forth against him he will not be afraid of their voice nor
abase himself for the noise of them so shall the Lord of hosts come down to
fight for Mount Zion and for the hill thereof as birds flying so will the Lord
of hosts defend Jerusalem defending also he will deliver it and passing over he
will preserve it turn ye unto him from whom the children of Israel have deeply
revolted for in that day every man shall cast away his idols of silver and his
idols of gold which your own hands have made unto you for a sin then shall the
Assyrian fall with the sword not of a mighty man and the sword not of a mean
man shall devour him but he shall flee from the sword and his young men shall
be discomforted and he shall pass over to his stronghold for fear and his
princes shall be afraid of the ensign sayeth the Lord whose fire is in Zion
and his furnace in Jerusalem chapter 32 behold a king shall reign in
righteousness and princes shall rule in judgment and a man shall be as an
hiding place from the wind and a covet from the tempest as rivers of water in a
dry place as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land and the eyes of them
shall not be dim and the ears of them that here shall haken the heart also of
the rash shall understand knowledge and the tongue of the stammerers shall be
ready to speak plainly the vile person shall be no more called liberal nor the
churl said to be bountiful for the vile person will speak villainy and his heart
will work iniquity to practice hypocrisy and to utter error against the Lord to
make empty the soul of the hungry and he will cause the drink of the thirsty to
fail the instruments also of the churl are evil he deviseth wicked devices to
destroy the poor with lying words even when the needy speaketh right but the
liberal deviseth liberal things and by liberal things shall he stand rise up ye
women that are at ease hear my voice ye careless daughters give ear unto my
speech many days and years shall you be troubled ye careless women for the
vintage shall fail the gathering shall not come tremble ye women that are at
ease be troubled ye careless ones strip you and make you bare and gird sackcloth
upon your loins they shall lament for the teats for the pleasant fields for
the fruitful vine upon the land of my people shall come up thorns and briars
yay upon all the houses of joy in the joyous city because the palaces shall
be forsaken the multitude of the city shall be left the forts and towers shall
be for dens forever a joy of wild asses a pasture of flocks until the spirit be
fought upon us from on high and the wilderness be a fruitful field and the
fruitful field be counted for a forest then judgment shall dwell in the
wilderness and righteousness remain in the fruitful field and the work of
righteousness shall be peace and the effect of righteousness quietness and
assurance forever and my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation and in
shore dwellings and in quiet resting places when it shall hail coming down on
the forest and the city shall be low in a low place blessed are ye that so
beside all waters that send forth thither the feet of the ox and the ass
chapter 33 woe to thee that spoilest and thou was not spoiled and dealers
treacherously and they dealt not treacherously with thee when thou shalt
cease to spoil thou shalt be spoiled and when thou shalt make an end to deal
treacherously they shall deal treacherously with thee O Lord be gracious
unto us we have waited for thee be thou their arm every morning our salvation
also in the time of trouble at the noise of the tumult the people fled at the
lifting up of thyself the nations were scattered and your spoil shall be
gathered like the gathering of the caterpillar as the running to and fro of
locusts shall he run upon them the Lord is exalted for he dwelleth on high he
has filled Zion with judgment and righteousness and wisdom and knowledge
shall be the stability of thy times and strength of salvation the fear of the
Lord is his treasure behold their valiant ones shall cry without the
ambassadors of peace shall weep bitterly the highways lie waste the wayfaring man
ceaseth he hath broken the covenant he hath despised the cities he regardeth no
man the earth mourneth and languisheth Lebanon is ashamed and hewn down Sharon
is like a wilderness and Bashan and Carmel shake off their fruits now will I
rise saith the Lord now will I be exalted now will I lift up myself ye shall
conceive chaff ye shall bring forth stubble your breath as fire shall devour
you and the people shall be as the burnings of lime as thorns cut up shall
they be burned in the fire here ye that are far off what I have done and ye
that are near acknowledge my might the sinners in Zion are afraid fearfulness
hath surprised the hypocrites who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire
who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings he that walketh
righteously and speaketh uprightly he that despiseth the gain of oppressions
that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes that stop at his ears from
hearing of blood and shut at his eyes from seeing evil he shall dwell on high
his place of defense shall be the munitions of rocks bread shall be given
him his waters shall be sure thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty they
shall behold the land that is very far off thine heart shall meditate terror
where is the scribe where is the receiver where is he that counted the
towers thou shalt not see a fierce people a people of a deeper speech than
thou canst perceive of a stammering tongue that thou canst not understand
look upon Zion the city of our celebrities thine eyes shall see
Jerusalem a quiet habitation a tabernacle that shall not be taken down
not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed neither shall any of the
cords thereof be broken but there the glorious Lord will be unto us a place
of broad rivers and streams wherein shall go no galley with oars neither shall
gallant ship pass thereby for the Lord is our judge the Lord is our lawgiver
the Lord is our King he will save us thy tacklings are loosed they could not
well strengthen their mast they could not spread the sail then is the prey of
a great spoil divided the lame take the prey and the inhabitants shall not say I
am sick the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven for their iniquity
end of chapters 31 to 33 recording by Beth Thomas
you